# FAAS Project Guide
This is a little guide on the FAAS project configuration and development setup. It will act temporarily as a guide for the team to indicate any steps needed to configure the project for development and to build it, but it will be edited before delivering the final version to reflect only needed details.

## Build
How to build this project?

### With Docker

The project is currently using Docker to build images and deploy containers based on those images, so make sure you have installed and running the [Docker](https://docs.docker.com) daemon on your computer. 

To run a compiled version of the project go to the root folder of the project and use the following command:

```
docker compose up
```

This will compile and execute the project, but it will not reload on any changes, use it when you want to perform tests on integration or performance. 

If you want to run a development version, which will refresh after you save your changes in the code, run:

```
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up
```

However, take into account that if you make any significant changes (like adding new services or components to the project) you might need to edit the docker-compose.dev.yml file, and the same goes for the build mode. 

### Build each component
You might want to build a component by it's own in order to test or build things isolated from other services. If you want to do that, here's how for each component.

#### HTTPS Server
To run the Node.js Server, just make sure to have installed the [Node](https://nodejs.org/en) runtime environment on your computer. I recommend using [Node Version Manager](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) for this to avoid any versioning issues, make sure you are using the correct version specified on the project files. 

To install dependencies:

```
npm install
```

To compile and run:

```
npm run start
```

To run a development build (with nodemon):

```
npm run dev
```

## HTTPS Server Certificates

Currently, the Node.js API is running an HTTPS Server using a private and public certificate, which are being generated by the generate-cert.sh script. This is handled in the docker file for the compiled version, and with npm scripts on the development version. Make sure to not upload any generated certificates to the repository, they will auto-generate for every local build. 

